---
layout: post
title: "1st year"
date: 2025-06-25
tags: [research]
--- 

What I am understanding what research is? 

Watching any other research scholar lost in his own thoughts. Sometimes I try to imagine what it feels research to him. Talking to them via some guidance meetings made me realize how important it is for him to read a paper everyday that he tries to build a system of the day around that. 

So it made me ask myself what is the definition of research for you in terms of mental models or actions of your day to day life. I hope it will help me to sort myself out instead of just beating around the bush. 

So research for me in beginning was to understand what is the importance of research and what should I expect from myself while transforming from being an engineer to a researcher. Then I comes to skills where the theme of my notes on the desktop revolves around ie how to read the paper, how to find the research question. Next will come the skill how to publish literature review and write the papers. Probably I should focus more on learning the different AI tools for research. But for that I have to know "Why". Why to use a tool? Or I can try to connect the dots ie first learn a tool and then use it. 

These days I get a lot of anxiety about the life after phd. If I will be able to get a job or not. But I dont think worrying about the future will help me anyway. Though yes it helped me to do a course. But yes it also distracted me from learning a new skill to become a better researcher. Like I can start a blog related to my knowledge in the phd, its tools or AI knowledge that can help me in understanding the broader perspective towards research. I am a lot focused towards a mission. Where I just need a new goal to pursue. But sometimes I do need to stop and see where I am going, what I am doing and what I am gaining. Research is vast field and it will take time for me to understand. Yes it is a journey, a process oriented journey. 
